#  [Test your vocab](http://testyourvocab.com/): [The
Blog](http://testyourvocab.com/blog)

( _Please also see the[main blog page](http://testyourvocab.com/blog), with
all entries._ )

##  [ Results by country ](http://testyourvocab.com/blog/2011-09-10-Results-
by-country)

### 10 September 2011

As previously promised... we are releasing the average English vocabulary
levels per-country, for non-native speakers. Please keep in mind, this is
_not_ scientific in the slightest, but rather just for fun.

First, the map and ranking:

5,2015,20116,29116,291

16,291

Average English vocabulary levels by country (non-native
speakers)05,00010,00015,00020,000DenmarkNorwayFinlandSwedenBelgiumCroatiaRomaniaSloveniaPortugalNetherlandsSerbiaGreeceMexicoFranceItalyArgentinaAustriaIsraelChileIndonesiaIcelandSouth
KoreaGermanySpainLithuaniaHungaryEstoniaUnited Arab EmiratesCzech
RepublicVenezuelaBulgariaColombiaSwitzerlandSlovakiaMalaysiaPolandLatviaThailandEgyptJapanTaiwanBrazilTurkeyHong
KongMoldovaRussiaUzbekistanChinaUkraineKazakhstanVietnamBelarusSaudi
ArabiaIranAverage English vocabulary sizeCountry

| Country| Average English vocabulary size  
---|---  
Denmark| 16,291  
Norway| 16,159  
Finland| 15,317  
Sweden| 15,147  
Belgium| 15,107  
Croatia| 14,760  
Romania| 13,870  
Slovenia| 13,807  
Portugal| 13,647  
Netherlands| 13,381  
Serbia| 13,183  
Greece| 13,165  
Mexico| 12,852  
France| 12,528  
Italy| 12,047  
Argentina| 12,028  
Austria| 11,939  
Israel| 11,918  
Chile| 11,641  
Indonesia| 11,434  
Iceland| 10,919  
South Korea| 10,471  
Germany| 10,409  
Spain| 10,357  
Lithuania| 10,313  
Hungary| 10,238  
Estonia| 10,065  
United Arab Emirates| 10,056  
Czech Republic| 10,033  
Venezuela| 9,987  
Bulgaria| 9,965  
Colombia| 9,950  
Switzerland| 9,822  
Slovakia| 9,806  
Malaysia| 9,451  
Poland| 9,272  
Latvia| 9,180  
Thailand| 9,058  
Egypt| 8,964  
Japan| 8,522  
Taiwan| 8,301  
Brazil| 7,886  
Turkey| 7,696  
Hong Kong| 7,608  
Moldova| 7,245  
Russia| 6,781  
Uzbekistan| 6,647  
China| 6,636  
Ukraine| 6,615  
Kazakhstan| 6,613  
Vietnam| 6,593  
Belarus| 6,390  
Saudi Arabia| 6,292  
Iran| 5,201  
  
non-native speakers)

It is clear that the real "winner" here is Northern Europe: the first four
places are Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden. After that, Europe as a whole
has a relatively strong showing, along with Mexico, Argentina, Israel, Chile,
and Indonesia.

But, what does this chart really mean? Besides being based normally on the
vocabulary test results, there are three limits placed on the data:

**Non-native.** It is based on speakers self-identified as non-native speakers
_only_ , so an American living in China should not affect the data for China.

**No English as an official language.** We have _not_ included results for
countries where English is one of the official languages. This means no US,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, Pakistan, Philippines, or Singapore.
While many of these countries had high numbers of respondents who self-
identified as non-native English speakers, comparison with other countries
would not be very meaningful.

**At least 300 respondents.** Less than this, and the data for the country is
really not very meaningful at all. (Interestingly, China, Iran and Russia are
by far our largest participants, with over 60,000 test-takers each. Next comes
Ukraine at 23,000, and then Germany at 12,000.)

And then, there are two big caveats to keep in mind:

**Internet participation.** It is based only on people who took the survey,
without any kind of scientific control, or guarantee that the participants are
representative of the overall population as a whole. In fact, they almost
surely aren't, since Internet users tend to be better educated and fall into
particular age groups. Strictly speaking, this means the comparative data is
totally useless, because it is theoretically possible that, for example, the
test was popular among top students in Denmark, and among low-performing
students in Iran. Such an extreme example is probably not the case, but
whether participation in a particular country came via an article on a high-
brow news site, or was spread by a particular group of people on a certain
social network, could certainly have an influence.

**IP addresses.** Countries were calculated automatically from the IP
addresses of test-takers. These are mostly accurate, but not perfect. Some
respondents also provided their nationality in the survey. Many countries show
self-reported nationalities and IP addresses matching up over 95% of the time,
while other countries have a somewhat lower rate. So country identification,
while good, is not absolutely perfect.

So have fun with the rankings, but don't take them too seriously. And if you
have further interest, check out the [EF English Proficiency
Index](http://www.ef.com/epi/ef-epi-ranking/), which shows very similar
results which come from a completely different survey, and also has a PDF
report with interesting profiles of English usage in a number of countries.

“One forgets words as one forgets names. One's vocabulary needs constant
fertilizing or it will die.”  
  

— Evelyn Waugh  
  
[Home](http://testyourvocab.com/) \- [About](http://testyourvocab.com/about)
\- [FAQ](http://testyourvocab.com/faq) \- [Hard
Words](http://testyourvocab.com/hard) \- [Nitty-
Gritty](http://testyourvocab.com/details) \-
[Blog](http://testyourvocab.com/blog) \-
[Related](http://testyourvocab.com/related) \-
[Contact](http://testyourvocab.com/contact) |  

